# Standalone scripts

Repository to store standalone scripts that do not belong to any bigger package or repository.

### backup_zendesk_tickets.py
Used to automatically back up tickets from zendesk

#### Usage
Example: `backup_zendesk_tickets.py --config-file ~/config_files/backup_zendesk_tickets.yaml --days 30`

```
Usage: backup_zendesk_tickets.py [OPTIONS]

Options:
  --config-file PATH  Path to the config file  [required]
  --days INTEGER      Since how many days ago to backup tickets
  --help              Show this message and exit.
  
```
  
#### Dependencies
* zendesk
* click 
* yaml

#### Configuration
Requires a config file:

```
url: https://ngisweden.zendesk.com
username: mattias.ormestad@scilifelab.se
token: <ask Mattias to get token>
output_path: /Users/kate/Dropbox/dropbox_work/zendesk/output
```


### backup_github.py
Performs a backup of all the repositories in user's GitHub account.

###### Dependencies

* logbook
* pygithub3

### couchdb_replication.py
handles the replication of the couchdb instance

###### Dependencies

* couchdb
* logbook
* pycrypto
* yaml

### data_to_ftp.py
Used to transfer data to user's ftp server maintaing the directory tree structure. Main intention
is to get the data to user outside Sweden.

### db_sync.sh
Script used to mirror (completely) Clarity LIMS database from production to staging server

### get_sample_names.py
Prints a list of analyzed samples with user_id and ngi_id
#### Usage:
```
get_sample_names.py P1234
```

### gt_concordance.py
Script to run gt_concordance for a specified project or sample. It will produce 3 type of files for each sample:

1. `.gt` file - results of parsing MAF data
2. `.vcf` file - output file generated by GATK 
3. `.conc` file - results of gt_concordance check (compared `.gt` and `.vcf` files)

#### Usage

```
Usage: gt_concordance.py [OPTIONS] COMMAND [ARGS]...
Options:
  -c, --config PATH  Path to a config file  [required]
  --help             Show this message and exit.
Commands:
  genotype_project
  genotype_sample
  parse_xl_files
```

`genotype_project` command can take an additional option --force

```
  -f, --force  If not specified, will keep existing .vcf files and use them to
               check concordance. Otherwise overwrite
```
               
1. Example: `python gt_concordance.py parse_xl_files`
2. Example: `python gt_concordance.py genotype_sample P4601_101`
3. Example: `python gt_concordance.py genotype_project P4601 --force`


#### Dependencies
Dependencies are specified in the file `requirements.txt`
* PyVCF
* pyexcel
* pyexcel-xlsx
* click
* pyyaml

#### Config file
Script requires config file.
When not specified, uses default ngi_pipeline config file.

Requires the following parameters:

```
XL_FILES_PATH: /lupus/proj/ngi2016003/genotype_data/incoming
XL_FILES_ARCHIVED:  /lupus/proj/ngi2016003/genotype_data/archived

GATK_PATH: /sw/apps/bioinfo/GATK/3.5.0/GenomeAnalysisTK.jar
GATK_REF_FILE: /sw/data/uppnex/reference/biodata/GATK/ftp.broadinstitute.org/bundle/2.8/b37/human_g1k_v37.fasta
GATK_VAR_FILE: /sw/data/uppnex/reference/biodata/GATK/ftp.broadinstitute.org/bundle/2.8/b37/dbsnp_138.b37.vcf

INTERVAL_FILE: /lupus/proj/ngi2016003/genotype_data/static/snps.interval_list
SNPS_FILE: /lupus/proj/ngi2016003/genotype_data/static/maf_snps.txt

ANALYSIS_PATH: /proj/ngi2016003/nobackup/NGI/ANALYSIS
OUTPUT_PATH: piper_ngi/03_genotype_concordance
```

### index_fixer.py 
Takes in a SampleSheet.csv and generates a new one with swapped or reverse complimented indexes.

###### Dependencies

* click
* Flowcell_Parser: SampleSheetParser

### project_status_extended.py
Collects information about specified project from the filesystem of irma. 
Without any arguments prints statistics for each sample, such as:
* Number of reads
* Coverage
* Duplication rate
* Mapping rate

#### Usage
`python project_status_extended.py P4601`

To remove headers from the output, use option `--skip-header`

The script can take additional arguments:
```
--sequenced           List of all the sequenced samples
--resequenced         List of samples that have been sequenced more than
once, and flowcells
--organized           List of all the organized flowcells
--to-organize         List of all the not-organized flowcells
--analyzed            List of all the analysed samples
--to-analyze          List of samples that are ready to be analyzed
--analysis-failed     List of all the samples with failed analysis
--under-analysis      List of the samples under analysis
--under-qc            List of samples under qc. Use for projects
without BP
--incoherent          Project-status but only for samples which have
incoherent number of sequenced/organized/analyzed
--low-coverage        List of analyzed samples with coverage below 28.5X
--undetermined        List of the samples which use undetermined  
--low-mapping         List of all the samples with mapping below 97 percent
--flowcells           List of flowcells where each sample has been sequenced
```

### repooler.py
Calculates a decent way to re-pool samples in the case that the amount of clusters from each
sample doesn't reach the required threshold due to mismeasurements in concentration.

###### Dependencies

* couchdb
* click
* Genologics: lims, config, entities

### quota_log.py
> **DO NOT USE THIS SCRIPT!**
>
> Use `taca server_status uppmax` instead!

Returns a summary of quota usage in Uppmax

###### Dependencies

* couchdb
* pprint

### set_bioinforesponsible.py
Calls up the genologics LIMS directly in order to more quickly set a bioinformatics responsible. 

###### Dependencies

* Genologics: lims, config

### use_undetermined.sh
Creates softlinks of undetermined for specified flowcell and lane to be used in the analysis. 
To be run on irma.
#### Usage
Usage: `use_undetermined.sh  <flowcell> <lane> <sample>`  
Example:  `use_undetermined.sh 160901_ST-E00214_0087_BH33GHALXX 1 P4601_273`
#### Important
After running the script, don't forget to (re-)**ORGANIZE FLOWCELL**. 
And then analysis can be started.

### ZenDesk Attachments Backup
Takes a ZenDesk XML dump backup file and searches for attachment
URLs that match specified filename patterns. These are then
downloaded to a local directory.

This script should be run manually on tools when the manual
ZenDesk backup zip files are saved.

#### Usage
Run with a typical ZenDesk backup zip file (will look for `tickets.xml`
inside the zip file):
```
zendesk_attachment_backup.py -i xml-export-yyyy-mm-dd-tttt-xml.zip
```

Alternatively, run directly on `tickets.xml`:
```
zendesk_attachment_backup.py -i ngisweden-yyyymmdd/tickets.xml
```

###### Usage
If you're using this on `tools` for the first time, you'll need to set up conda.
`tools` only has v2.6 of Python installed by default, which is old and not
compatible with this script

These instructions get a copy of Python 2.7 for you. You only need to do this once:

1. Download & install Miniconda
```
wget https://repo.continuum.io/miniconda/Miniconda2-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
bash Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
```
2. Tell the installer to prepend itself to your `.bashrc` file
3. Log out and log in again, check that `conda` is in your path
4. Create an environment for Python 2.7
```
conda create --name tools_py2.7 python pip
```
5. Add it to your `.bashrc` file so it always loads
```
echo source activate tools_py2.7 >> .bashrc
```

Now Python 2.7 is installed, the zendesk attachment backup script should work.
You can run it by going to the Zendesk backup directory and running it on
any new downloads:
```
zendesk_attachment_backup.py <latest_backup>.zip
```

###### Dependencies
* argparse
* os
* urllib2
* re
* sys
* zipfile
